# Atlas of nonzero elements of polar and axial tensors

The following compilation of nonzero elements of polar and axial tensor elements was generated using the TensSym package (https://github.com/hp35/tenssym/) and covers tensors of rank 2 up to rank 5, for the following point-symmetry groups:
- cubic_4bar3m
- cubic_23
- trigonal_3
- trigonal_32_2x
- trigonal_32_2y
- triclinic_1bar
- triclinic_1
- tetragonal_422
- cubic_m3m
- cubic_432
- cubic_m3
- hexagonal_6
- hexagonal_6bar

See https://github.com/hp35/tenssym for details.

## Catalogue of nonzero and independent tensor elements
- Rank 2 tensors: [rank-2](rank-2)
    - polar tensor: [rank-2/polar](rank-2/polar)
    - axial tensor: [rank-2/axial](rank-2/axial)
- Rank 3 tensors: [rank-3](rank-3)
    - polar tensor: [rank-3/polar](rank-3/polar)
    - axial tensor: [rank-3/axial](rank-3/axial)
- Rank 4 tensors: [rank-4](rank-4)
    - polar tensor: [rank-4/polar](rank-4/polar)
    - axial tensor: [rank-4/axial](rank-4/axial)
- Rank 5 tensors: [rank-5](rank-5)
    - polar tensor: [rank-5/polar](rank-5/polar)
    - axial tensor: [rank-5/axial](rank-5/axial)

## References
1.   Susceptibility Tensors for Nonlinear Optics, S. V. Popov, Yu. P. Svirko and N. Zheludev (Institute of Physics Publishing, Bristol, 1995). ISBN 0-7503-0253-4.
2. The Elements of Nonlinear Optics, P. N. Butcher and D. Cotter (Cambridge University Press, Bristol, 1993). ISBN 0-521-42424-0.
3. The Nonlinear Optics of Magneto-Optic Media (doctoral thesis), Fredrik Jonsson (The Royal Institute of Technology, 2000), ISBN 91-7170-575-9; Available via the National Library of Sweden (Kungl. Biblioteket) at http://urn.kb.se/resolve?urn=urn:nbn:se:kth:diva-2967
4. Patrick Steglich and Achim Kehrein, <em>Light propagation in anisotropic materials and electro-optical effects: tutorial on the use of eigenvalue problems, tensors, and symmetries</em>, J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, Vol. 41, No. 9, pp. 2191--2210 (2024).
5. Herbert Goldstein, <em>Classical Mechanics</em>, 2nd Edn. (Addison-Wesley, 1980), Ch. 4.4, pp. 146--147.

## Copyright
Copyright (C) 2023, Fredrik Jonsson, under GPL 3.0. See enclosed LICENSE.

## Location of master source code
The source and documentation can be found at https://github.com/hp35/tenssym 
This README.md was auto-generated by the Bash shell script https://github.com/hp35/tenssym/blob/main/tenssym.sh on Tue Jul 22 05:57:22 PM CEST 2025.
